What we're gonna do now is for
your exercise,
you'll notice that inside we have this
ability to filter right as the user types.
But the thing is this can be a little bit
tricky because sometimes the user is not
ready for you to filter and you're
just Just immediately eliminating it.
So what I want you to
do is inside of this,
whether let's just do dishes to be
consistent, I want you to hijack the event
so that it only like updates and
grabs the latest once you've hit Enter.
Walk through the solution and then I
might show you an easy way to do it.
So let's recap, so what we're trying to
do here is inside of our dishes currently
whatever we type it automatically
filters which is nice on one hand.
But on the other hand, let's actually make
use of a user's intention about when they
wanna filter in case they're trying
to like look at something and
reference it as they're typing
to kind of make a guess.
So the way we're going to do this is start
by actually breaking apart the V model
that exists on the input element, and so
that's happening all the way down here.
So this filter text V model that's
happening, we can basically say then
is that we can break it up into the input,
sorry, the value that we wanna rebind.
But then we have this input where we say,
basically,
let's call it update filter texts.
All right, so this method for update
filter text, let's define that up here,
so cons, update, filter, text.
Now we know a couple things,
we know one, we're getting an event, but
what kind of event are we getting?
We're getting an input event, and
then what we do wanna then is we wanna
check to see basically, can we actually
see something specific about it?
So let's go ahead and
start just by making sure that
the event actually triggers and fires.
So we go back here and look at our
console, we can see when we type, okay,
this is good FTS, perfect.
But I'm kind of curious though, what if I
swap this to be a keyboard event instead?
If I swap that over, it looks like it's
still cause it calling it as an input
event, but
let's see if this does anything for us.
Because on the keyboard event, the nice
thing is we get some other things that we
know we get as far as like the code on
the actual key event that's being pressed.
So the key event then we can also just say
like this, and then that way when we go
back, let's try this out, so there you go,
it's undefined, that's interesting.
So it looks like it's because
at least at the moment,
this input event really doesn't have it.
So we can't see, we can't fake it
even though type three has been like,
you're good.
No, you're not really good,
[LAUGH] clearly something is wrong.
So we can't just arbitrarily change it,
so we have our input event,
and that's fine, and so once again,
we can go ahead and say.
All right, so we have to event
dot target as HTML input element,
and then let's log that
once again real quick.
And then once we refresh, there we go,
we have some stuff here going on, and
then we can basically then grab the URL
actually we don't want the value.
Well, we do want where we
want this in this Second, so
we do want we want to get
the key somehow from this.
It's kind of interesting that
the key doesn't pop up, but okay,
there we go is trusted,
let's see, where's that data T?
I mean, if we hit Enter what
does that create for us?
Nothing, it's interesting Enter
doesn't do anything for us, so
whatever you want to do.
So maybe actually the more so I'm sure
there's a way you can dive in you can look
into things, but this is where actually
the input event might not actually be
the right thing to be listening for
on this.
In fact, and so this is a little bit of
a gotcha that's kind of done intentionally
what we might wanna do instead
is actually do the key up event.
And so if you haven't worked with view
native events before it allows you to
basically attach to any
native JavaScript event.
And work with it and so
on the key up event now let's see
what exactly do we get from this.
So you see key up has
a keyboard event okay,
this looks a little bit more interesting.
So let's swap that over now to a keyboard
event so that's really what we're looking
for, and let's go ahead and
see how if this changes anything.
So now, we can go ahead and
let's go in here and be like,
okay, wait, I'm an addition,
is this correct?
Look at the code,
the magic code has appeared.
So if I hit Enter, hey, it's appearing, so
what we can do is we can say, well,
if event dot code is equal to enter,
then we shall do our thing where we do
dish Wait new dish I believe new dish.
Wait am I end,
wait I forgot we're filtering text
we're not updating the new text.
So we need to update its filter text,
so filter text dot
value is equal to let's see event dot
target dot will let us do it, it does not.
Okay, so now, we know once again this is
a nation input element so we need to cast
it, so let's go and cast it as
an element then this gives us the value.
So now, we can try this out,
ghost, a nothing's changing yet,
but if I hit Enter everything filters,
but that's not it.
That's actually not the easiest way to do
this, the easiest way to do this is we can
actually delete all this and then we can
actually attach a modifier to our events.
So this allows you to basically
already bypass the key check.
So if I save this now,
and then go back here,
you can see a little more Enter it
refreshes, or while it filters.
And so chaining events is
a popular thing in view, and so
something I want you all to know about.
Because for example, when you're doing
a forum, how many of us have done forums
where when we had to listen to a submit
event, run event dot prevent default?
Well, whenever you're building a view just
do this, submit dot prevent your codes
much cleaner, you don't have to worry
about preventing the default event.
So definitely look into the event
chaining going forward.
There's a lot in there a lot
more than what I've shown you.
In fact, you can even write your own
custom modifiers this whole thing you can
customize.
But I just wanted you to see the kind of
syntactic sugar that view can provide for
you that can make things
just a lot easier.
But again, just to be clear, I wanted you
all to scale it was like to get at the raw
primitives of it in case you
needed to get at that level.
So there we go,
that's how we would complete setting.